Next is more advanced than React in terms of Server Side Rendering and Static Site Generation. These are the two forms of pre-rendering features that Next.js provides us.

1. Server Side Rendering is the method where the content is generated at the server side itself and sent to the client directly.
In React, the content is populated using JavaScript and driven through the API. If in any case the API for the website is not working, the content will not be populated and there is no use visiting the website thereafter. Also, the content is loaded with the help of JavaScript. If in any case the JavaScript cannot run on the client side, the content will not be loaded. Also, for Search Engine Optimization (SEO), the content has to be visible in the plan HTML itself otherwise the crawler bots will not be able to detect content. Bots do not run JavaScript for loading the content. Hence, for improving SEO, the content has to be server-side rendered and then delivered. Next.js helps in achieving this effectively. This is also useful when the content is changing very fast, for example in Live sports channel or social media fields.

2. Static Site Generation is the method which is used when static data is to be served to the client. This can be effectively done using CDNs which can deliver data very fast. In this method, the front-end bundle of the whole site is converted into a static site. The server will deliver the whole site and its front-end to the client and then its work is done. This is Static Site Generation. One Major drawback of Static Site Generation is that once the static site is generated and deployed, the content will not change again. The CDNs and browser can cache the data and make the content delivery very fast, but in return, if any part of the site needs to be changed, without redeployment, the changes will not be visible.